The   February  TIOBE  Index  of  the  most  popular
popular   languages  is  out,  and  while  the  work
work    on    in    the    background    of   TIOBE
TIOBE   has   changed,   not  much  has  shifted  in
in   way   of  rankings.  Python  continues  to  sit
sit   the   index,   with   C   and   Java  directly
directly   it.   In  Feb.  2021,  those  three  also
also   the   top   spot,   but  with  Python  in  the
the   three   position,   C   at  top,  and  Java  in
in    place.    Beyond   the   top   three,   there
there   been   much  movement  in  the  index,  with
with   four   through   eight  unchanged  from  the
the    time    last    year.    Those   slots   are
are   respectively,   by  C++,  C#,  Visual  Basic,
Basic,    and    PHP.   Positions   nine   and   10
10    from   Feb.   21   to   now,   with   Assembly
Assembly    and    SQL    now    occupying    each
each   positions.   The   one   big   move  of  note
note   Feb.   2021   and   Feb.  2022  was  with  the
the   programming  language,  an  object-oriented
object-oriented   for  Java.  Over  the  course  of
of   year,   Groovy  fell  from  12th  position  all
all   way  to  20th,  putting  it  perilously  close
close   the   “other  programming  languages”
languages”     TIOBE     CEO     Paul    Jansen
Jansen   Groovy’s   decline   to  the  growth  in
in   CI/CD  space.  Groovy  was  the  only  language
language   for   writing   scripts   on   Jenkins,
Jenkins,   Jansen   describes   as   having   been
been   only  real  player  in  the  CI/CD  domain”
domain”    on.    Now,   with   platforms   that
that    require   Groovy,   like   GitHub,   Azure
Azure   and  GitLab,  Groovy  is  losing  its  place
place   the   table.  “Groovy  could  have  grown
grown   because   it  was  the  major  script-based
script-based   for   Java   running   on  the  same
same   However,   Kotlin   is   taking   over  that
that   right   now,  so  I  think  Groovy  will  have
have   hard   time,”   Jensen   said.  The  TIOBE
TIOBE   may   not   be   full   of   surprises  this
this   but   Jansen  did  have  a  lot  to  say  about
about   index   itself   this   month,  as  this  is
is   first   time   it   has   been  compiled  using
using   traffic   analysis   platform  instead  of
of   “We   have  used  Similarweb  for  the  first
first   this   month   to   select  search  engines
engines    fortunately,    there    are   no   big
big   in   the  index  due  to  this  swap.  The  only
only   difference  is  that  the  top  3  languages,
languages,   C,  and  Java,  all  gained  more  than
than    percent   in   the   rankings,”   Jansen
Jansen   TIOBE  decided  to  make  the  switch  this
this    after    Amazon’s    announcement    in
in   2021   that   it  was  shutting  the  Alexa  web
web   service   down,   effective   May   1,  2022,
2022,   25   years  of  the  program.  Jansen  noted
noted   not   every  website  has  been  onboarded,
onboarded,   that   the   switch   to   Similarweb
Similarweb   a   switch   to   using   HtmlUnit,  a
a   web   browser   with  APIs  that  let  Java  apps
apps   pages,  fill  forms  and  do  other  standard
standard   browsing  activity.  This  switch  will
will   allow   TIOBE  to  include  websites  it  was
was   to  crawl  before,  like  Stackoverflfow  and
and   which   could   have   a   larger   impact  on
on                                           
